There is much talk of a ‘new normal’ but in reality what I expect to see is more of an acceleration – and a cementing – of changes that were already underway. The move to online sales, for example, is only going to increase further as a result of the experience we have been through. That applies both to the so-called pure-play eCommerce providers but also, very importantly, where physical and digital channels combine (omnichannel), which is growing rapidly. The 61% increase in our own online sales last year is a powerful reflection of this trend . Our own research and consumer surveys suggest there has been a marked increase in conscious consumption during the pandemic, with people increasingly reaching for brands they know and trust, ones they believe will contribute more broadly and purposefully to our lives and the issues we face, including environmental challenges like climate change and plastic pollution. I very much hope – and expect – to see this trend deepen further in the years ahead. Working practices are also sure to change in the wake of the pandemic. Here I would expect to see an even more rapid escalation of trends already underway, and in particular a fast-forwarding to more flexible, agile and people-centred approaches to work. However, even though the traditional 9 to 5, five days a week model looks increasingly outmoded, reports of the demise of office-based working are exaggerated in my view. A strong culture is the glue that binds any organisation together and that requires its fair share of physical interaction in order to learn, collaborate, swap ideas and stay attuned to the welfare and well-being of others. It was a good performance overall, achieved in some of the most volatile and unpredictable conditions imaginable. The performance reaffirmed the strength of our brands and the resilience of our portfolio, as well as revealing a far higher ability to respond with speed and agility, something I called out last year as an area for improvement. In any crisis it is important to move quickly to reset objectives in line with changing market realities. We refocused the business on competitive growth, and on delivering underlying operating profit and free cash flow. I am pleased to say that we delivered on all three. In terms of competitiveness, more than 50% of our business won value market share last year; and the most recent readings show that figure is now even higher at over 60%. There was an improvement in underlying operating profit when excluding currency impact, and we delivered record free cash flow of €7.7 billion in the most volatile conditions. Our underlying sales growth for the year was 1.9%, which represents a good performance in such volatile and precarious conditions. On the bottom line, underlying operating margin was down 60bps to 18.5%, although this was largely a factor of Covid-related costs and adverse product sales mix. The resolve, dedication and ingenuity of our people in the face of unprecedented challenges – combined with their willingness to pull together in a spirit of One Unilever – was undoubtedly a highlight of the year. It made me even prouder to lead the wonderful people of this great company. I can only thank them for what they have achieved over the last year for Unilever and for its many stakeholders. Thanks to their contribution, we have not only steered Unilever successfully through the first phase of a pandemic, but we have done so while simultaneously strengthening the company’s portfolio and – with it – our ability to compete longer term. The successful completion of the Horlicks acquisition, for example, along with other acquisitions last year – including Liquid I.V. and SmartyPants Vitamins – further boost our presence in the fast-growing and strategically attractive segment of functional nutrition and wellbeing. At the same time, we were able to give the company greater strategic flexibility to engage in even more transformative portfolio moves – should it ever wish – by successfully completing the Unification of the Group’s legal structure under a single parent company, Unilever PLC. This complex undertaking has been a long-held and much debated ambition. To see it come to fruition on the strength of the overwhelming endorsement of shareholders was certainly a highlight of 2020. At the heart of the Unilever Compass is a belief that sustainable and purposeful business drives superior long-term performance. That message is more relevant – and more resonant – today than ever before. While Covid-19 has concentrated minds and efforts on the immediate global health crisis, it has also reminded us of the fragility of the world we all share with other big global challenges, like climate change and inequality, becoming even more pressing.  
By making solutions to these challenges the focus of our attention – and the essence of our brand propositions – we connect even more directly with the billions of people around the world we serve. They want to see companies and brands step-up and actively engage in addressing today’s most urgent and deep-seated social and environmental challenges, not just pay them lip service. 
The power and relevance of the Unilever Compass was captured vividly last year in the launch of some major initiatives. Clean Future, for example, commits us to replace all of the fossil fuel-derived carbon in our cleaning and laundry products with renewable or recycled carbon by 2030. And with Future Foods, we have set an ambition to transform the global food system, reduce food waste and accelerate the move to plant-based meat and dairy alternatives. These industry-leading initiatives respond directly to the wishes of consumers. They also build on earlier, equally ambitious, commitments around Climate and Nature and on reducing plastics, both of which are covered in more detail in other parts of this report (see pages 28 to 29). 
More recently, we have given expression to the social dimension of the Unilever Compass by setting out how we plan to use our scale and influence to build a more equitable and inclusive society. This includes ensuring we pay a living wage to everyone in our value chain by 2030 and preparing our people for the future of work through skills and flexible employment options. Despite encouraging developments on treatments and vaccines, the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over. Our overriding priority remains, therefore, to protect lives and livelihoods. We will do that by focussing on the safety and well-being of our own people – and the many we work with in the value chain – while also continuing to play a prominent role in the wider relief effort, including in the roll-out of global handwashing campaigns. 
The economic toll from the pandemic will be deep and long-lasting. We need to be prepared. We will continue therefore in 2021 to focus on competitive growth. This will be a key part of our overall 4G approach of delivering consistent, profitable, competitive and responsible growth. All four are needed to create value. 
A further priority is to ensure we retain the speed and agility of response which characterised our performance in 2020. We have a wonderful portfolio of on-trend, purpose-led brands, many of which are directly helping people through the trials of the pandemic and prolonged periods of lockdown. Taking those brands to more places, more people and more quickly is a key part of our plans for 2021. 
Finally, in keeping with our vision and belief that responsible and sustainable business drives superior performance, we will continue to prioritise our multi-stakeholder business model, sure in the knowledge that the best way to deliver steady, compounded value creation for shareholders is to serve the needs and interests of all of Unilever’s many stakeholders of the world and the impact on
Unilever’s markets?
There’s no doubt that conditions are challenging
right now. Sluggish economies and a high
degree of geopolitical uncertainty are inevitably
impacting consumer confidence and spending,
which in turn is intensifying competition in
the retail sector. However, Unilever has now
been around for 90 years and so we are very
accustomed to operating through downturns
and periods of uncertainty like this, and indeed
emerging stronger. Moreover, all our competitors
– big and small – face the same challenges.
The key in this environment is to remain relevant
to the consumers you serve. For us, that comes
down to two things. First, earning trust by
operating a responsible, multi-stakeholder
business model. And second, harnessing
advances in science and technology – and
especially digital – in ways that allow us to reach
and delight consumers in new and ever more
inventive ways. We are firmly focused on both.
The recent outbreak of Coronavirus (COVID-19)
is clearly concerning and we are monitoring
developments very closely. The safety and wellbeing
of our people has been the overriding
priority. We are also doing all we can to ensure
business continuity and our teams are working
tirelessly to help mitigate the risks. Inevitably,
however, there will be an adverse impact on the
business although the extent is not yet clear.
As you look back, how do you reflect
on Unilever’s business performance
in 2019?
It was a mixed performance. Our profitability
was good with a healthy improvement in
underlying operating margin, strong free cash
flow delivery of more than €6.1 billion and
cash flow from operating activities of €10.6
billion. This is important because our model
is predicated on being able to re-invest in the
long-term health of the business, while also
paying out a competitive annual dividend.
On the flip side, growth is also a key driver of
value creation and our underlying sales growth
performance fell slightly short of expectations, at
2.9%, which was naturally disappointing. Turnover
increased 2.0% to €52.0 billion. While growth
was hindered by a marked slowdown in some of
Unilever’s high growth markets like South Asia
and West Africa, these markets all remain very
attractive long-term prospects for us. We are
confident therefore of restoring underlying sales
growth to Unilever’s 3-5% multi-year range.
What were the highlights for you
of 2019?
A strong performance in the emerging markets
– growing at over 5% – was an undoubted
highlight. We also grew across each of our three
global Divisions, which was encouraging and
reflects the inherent strengths of our brands
and our portfolio. Our Home Care Division had a
particularly strong year, growing by more than
6%, driven by some great innovations and an
intensifying focus around ‘green cleaning’. The
performance of our recently acquired prestige
beauty brands – which grew double-digit – was
also a highlight, further establishing Unilever as
an important player in this highly attractive and
fast-growing segment of the market.
We have set out some very ambitious goals for
Unilever. We want, for example, to be a global
leader in sustainability; to be the world’s best
marketing company; and to be an organisation
that stands as a beacon for diversity and
inclusion. Seeing Unilever recognised in 2019,
therefore, as a leader in multiple external
benchmarks, including the GlobeScan
Sustainability Leaders Survey (for the ninth
consecutive year); the World’s Most Effective
Marketing Company; and as recipient of the
prestigious Catalyst Award (for the company
which has done most to accelerate the progress
of women through workplace inclusion), were all
special moments – as well as a spur to increase
our efforts still further in these important areas.
Where do you feel the company
could have done better?
In markets as dynamic and fast-moving as ours,
speed is essential, both in seizing opportunities
to meet changing consumer preferences but
also in responding when our business is under
competitive challenge. While we do this well
on many occasions and in many parts of the
world, we haven’t yet developed the consistency
of response that I am looking for everywhere,
and this was apparent in 2019. We made some
important organisational changes during the
year – including flattening our market structure
under a newly created Chief Operating Officer
position – which I am confident will help to make
Unilever a faster and even more operationally
effective business.
As far as our global Divisions are concerned,
while it was an excellent year as mentioned for
Home Care, our Beauty & Personal Care and
Foods & Refreshment Divisions both fell short of
expectation – with underlying sales growth at
2.6% and 1.5% respectively – and so this is where
we will be looking to accelerate growth most
specifically in 2020.
In the area of diversity, we reached an
important milestone in 2019 on our journey to
become a gender-balanced organisation. Our
management population is now made up of just
over 50% women. Pleasing as this is, the overall
figure masks the fact we haven’t yet made the
progress we want at the most senior levels of
the company, where women are still underrepresented.
This is very much a job half-done
therefore and something I intend to make a
personal priority in 2020.
What steps are you taking to
accelerate growth?
We’re doing a lot. I’ve already mentioned speed.
There are two other areas I would highlight.
First, we are putting a heightened level of focus
around some proven growth fundamentals,
which we are confident will accelerate our topline
performance. These include making our
innovations even more impactful; building our
presence in faster-growing retail channels, like
e-commerce; ensuring that more and more of
our brands have a clearly articulated purpose
that resonate with consumers; and driving our
savings programmes further to help fuel the
many growth opportunities we have.
The second relates to our portfolio. We have
made significant changes over recent years,
acquiring businesses in new parts of the market
and disposing of businesses such as Spreads.
The overall effect has been to improve Unilever’s
exposure to faster growing markets, those
that offer better long-term prospects for value
creation. We will continue that process, evaluating
our portfolio rigorously against a range of
exacting criteria. It is in that context that we have
announced a strategic review of our global tea
business, which has a large footprint in the slower
growing black tea segment and a history of being
dilutive to Unilever’s overall growth and margin.
We will explore all options, with an open mind and
with the intention of sharing the conclusions of the
review by the middle of 2020.
How are you planning to take forward
Unilever’s commitment to social and
environmental sustainability?
Under the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan (USLP)
we have developed an enviable reputation for
leadership on these issues. We now mean to build
on that, not least because many of the challenges
the world faces – like the climate crisis or growing
inequality – are becoming ever more pressing.
We will do this by embedding sustainability in
a new purpose-led, future-fit Unilever Compass
strategy, and in two principal ways. First, we will
continue to use our size and scale to help drive
change through our extended value chain. A great
example last year was the ambitious commitment
we made to address the issue of plastic packaging
by halving our use of virgin plastic and by helping
to collect and process more plastic packaging
than we sell, both by 2025.
Second, we will make our product brands even
more prominent vehicles for driving social and
environmental change. Many of our brands
already do this, to great effect, but we now intend
to make it an integral feature of every brand.
We know that it works and that it also helps to
drive growth. Last year, our most purposeful
brands grew faster than the rest of the portfolio.
Unilever’s brands touch the lives of two and a
half billion people every day so the opportunity
for us to influence behaviour and drive positive
change is enormous.
I am very proud of all the women and men of
Unilever – and the millions more we partner with
throughout the value chain – who work so hard
every day to bring these commitments to life and
who are determined to show that Unilever can
remain a force for good in the world.Against this backdrop, Unilever delivered a solid performance.
Underlying sales grew by 3.1%, excluding the recently-divested
spreads business (2.9% including spreads). Growth was profitable,
bringing our underlying operating margin to 18.4%, up 90 basis points,
which also drove a healthy free cash flow of €5 billion for the year.
Importantly, the overall shape and quality of the performance was
encouraging. We achieved a good balance of price and volume growth.
Growth was broad-based, across each of our three global Divisions –
Beauty & Personal Care, Home Care and Foods & Refreshment. Our
continuing margin progression was underpinned by well-embedded
savings and efficiency programmes, and an improving mix from
underlying sales growth in Beauty & Personal Care.
Inspired by the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, we also saw
our brands with the most distinct and well-articulated social and
environmental purpose grow significantly faster than our other brands.
The performance last year demonstrates I believe that our strategy is
working. By empowering our three global Divisions, we are allowing
for more strategic allocation of resource and for greater differentiation
in meeting changing consumer needs. Beauty & Personal Care, for
example, made good progress in moving to more premium positions
and expanding in the high growth segments. Home Care built on its
already strong emerging market footprint with a strategy of market
development and benefit-led innovation for emerging needs. Whilst
Foods & Refreshment was combined into a single division bringing
more scale and focus to allow faster transformation of our portfolio.
The results in 2018 re-affirm the enduring strength of Unilever’s
brands and the growing resilience of our organisational model, as well
as underlining Unilever’s ability to deliver consistent top and bottom
line performance even in very challenging conditions. Nevertheless,
we are determined to step up the proportion of our business that
is winning market share as part of moving our sales growth more
consistently into the middle of our multi-year 3-5% targeted range. As well as delivering a solid set of results, we also made good
progress in 2018 in strengthening the overall business to be ready
for future opportunities:
• By empowering those closest to the marketplace, and by linking
our global brand teams across the world, our Connected for Growth
(C4G) organisational model is helping to increase speed and agility,
as well as giving rise to a greater entrepreneurial spirit inside
the company. As an illustration of this, time to market with new
innovations to meet local trends is now 40%-50% faster compared
to 2016. We also launched 19 new brands, including Love Home
and Planet, a range of plant-based, home-cleaning products and
a follow-up to our successful launch of the natural and sustainable
hair and skincare product range, Love Beauty and Planet.
• In line with our strategy, we continued to move the portfolio in the
direction of the faster-growing segments of the market, especially
those that speak to consumers’ growing desire for more natural
products and purpose-driven brands. The vast majority of
businesses we have acquired over recent years are now growing by
double digits on a yearly basis and we were delighted at the end of
last year to announce the acquisition of GlaxoSmithKline's Health
Food Drinks portfolio, including its iconic Horlicks brand in India
and the rest of Asia, further increasing our presence in the highly
attractive health-food category. We also completed successfully the
complex disposal of the spreads business, returning the after-tax
proceeds to shareholders.
• The way people shop and access brands is changing rapidly and we
made good progress in 2018 in positioning ourselves effectively in
well on the road to building a scale e-commerce business. We
also accelerated the growth of our business with Discounters, in the
Health and Beauty channel and in the out-of-home eating market.
• The digital transformation of the company also continues apace. We
are working successfully with leading global technology companies
to build world-class technology and data analytics infrastructure.
Through the sophisticated and responsible leveraging of our data
insights, we are close to reaching our goal of being able to connect
directly with a billion of our consumers. In our operations, we have
already automated over 700 processes – saving time and reducing
cost – and our in-house training programmes are increasingly
focussed on the digital up-skilling of our own people.
• Our attractiveness as an employer of choice grew still further in
2018. Unilever is now the number one FMCG graduate employer of
choice in almost 50 countries. That is a remarkable achievement,
and testament to Unilever’s values and commitment to be a force for
good in the world.
Strengthened by these measures, we are good in shape for the future.
We ended 2018 with 58% of our turnover in the emerging markets
and enjoying number 1 or 2 positions in 85% of the key markets and
categories in which we compete. Our Beauty & Personal Care
business – where some of the biggest growth opportunities exist
– now represents 40% of our turnover. All of this makes us well placed
to capture the many opportunities that exist across our markets.
my first priority as CEO will be to accelerate quality growth. For us,
that means an investment-led approach based on delivering our 4G
growth model – consistent growth, competitive growth, profitable
growth and responsible growth, with an equal focus on each.
In particular, I want to leave no doubt that I intend to build further
on Unilever’s century-old commitment to responsible business.
'Making Sustainable Living Commonplace' will remain our purpose
as a company and we will use this to keep Unilever at the forefront of
ensuring business is a force for good. More and more of our brands
will become explicit about the positive social and environmental
impact they have. This is entirely aligned to the instincts of our people
and to the expectations of our consumers. It is not about putting
purpose ahead of profits, it is purpose that drives profits.
Despite the progress we have made in recent years, I am also clear
that – in a world where the speed of change is relentless – we need to
quicken the pace of everything we do still further. I want to make speed
and skills for a digital age a hallmark of Unilever under my leadership.
If we can do all this then I am confident we can achieve our strategic
aims and deliver many years of solid cash flow, further underlying
operating margin improvement and good quality growth.
I want to thank my colleagues throughout the whole company for
their hard work in delivering these results. Unilever is fortunate to
have such talented and dedicated people and I am deeply aware of
my responsibilities to them – and to our many other stakeholders
– in being asked to lead this wonderful company.
I especially want to thank my predecessor, Paul Polman. Unilever has
been transformed under his inspiring leadership. He has worked tirelessly
to make the company stronger and the world a better place. It has been
a privilege to serve with him and an honour now to succeed him.
I also want to thank the Unilever Board of Directors for their
confidence and invaluable guidance as I take on the role. And, finally,
to our shareholders, thank you for your ongoing support and belief
in the company, which we will always work hard to retain.
The first and most painful thing to say is that the pandemic has
resulted in the loss of a number of Unilever colleagues across
the world. Our thoughts go out to their families and friends, and
indeed to all those whose lives have been impacted so tragically
by this pernicious disease.
The effect of the pandemic on Unilever’s business has been
significant. Widespread national lockdowns saw large parts of the
portfolio – including our €1.7 billion food service business – hit by
sudden and very dramatic falls in sales, in some cases by as much
as 70%. The ‘stay at home’ message also led to declines across
parts of our largest Division, Beauty & Personal Care, including in
deodorants and hair care. In other areas, like home and hygiene
and skin cleansing, there were surges in demand as consumers
sought out products capable of helping in the fight against
Covid-19. The in-home part of our Foods & Refreshment business
also experienced an uplift in sales as people rediscovered the joys
of home cooking. Across the year, we saw similarly unprecedented
swings in consumer demand across geographical markets, as well
as in the use of channels.
Responding to these sudden and dramatic fluctuations in demand
in the midst of a global pandemic has required a herculean effort
on the part of our teams, and especially from our supply chain and
field sales colleagues, who kept our products reaching the shelves
while having to observe strict safety protocols. I want to record my
appreciation – and my admiration – for all they did in 2020 to keep
our business moving forward.
While the effect of the pandemic on Unilever’s business has
been slightly lower overall growth than we would otherwise
have expected, I do believe we can look back on 2020 with pride,
given the extent to which we limited the impact.
There is much talk of a ‘new normal’ but in reality what I expect to
see is more of an acceleration – and a cementing – of changes that
were already underway. The move to online sales, for example,
is only going to increase further as a result of the experience we
have been through. That applies both to the so-called pure-play
eCommerce providers but also, very importantly, where physical
and digital channels combine (omnichannel), which is growing
rapidly. The 61% increase in our own online sales last year is
a powerful reflection of this trend .
I also expect the heightened awareness around home and
personal hygiene – and handwashing in particular – to be a lasting
phenomenon. And while we are all desperate for lockdowns to
end, our homes – and the pride we take in them – have become
an even more central feature of our lives, and I believe that will
continue. These are trends Unilever is well placed to help serve.
Our own research and consumer surveys suggest there has been a
marked increase in conscious consumption during the pandemic,
with people increasingly reaching for brands they know and trust,
ones they believe will contribute more broadly and purposefully
to our lives and the issues we face, including environmental
challenges like climate change and plastic pollution. I very
much hope – and expect – to see this trend deepen further
in the years ahead.
Working practices are also sure to change in the wake of the
pandemic. Here I would expect to see an even more rapid
escalation of trends already underway, and in particular a fastforwarding
to more flexible, agile and people-centred approaches
to work. However, even though the traditional 9 to 5, five days a
week model looks increasingly outmoded, reports of the demise of
office-based working are exaggerated in my view. A strong culture
is the glue that binds any organisation together and that requires
its fair share of physical interaction in order to learn, collaborate,
swap ideas and stay attuned to the welfare and well-being
of others.
As you look back, how do you reflect on
Unilever’s business performance in 2020?
It was a good performance overall, achieved in some of the
most volatile and unpredictable conditions imaginable. The
performance reaffirmed the strength of our brands and the
resilience of our portfolio, as well as revealing a far higher ability
to respond with speed and agility, something I called out last
year as an area for improvement.
In any crisis it is important to move quickly to reset objectives in
line with changing market realities. We refocused the business on
competitive growth, and on delivering underlying operating profit
and free cash flow. I am pleased to say that we delivered on all
three. In terms of competitiveness, more than 50% of our business
won value market share last year; and the most recent readings
show that figure is now even higher at over 60%. There was an
improvement in underlying operating profit when excluding
currency impact, and we delivered record free cash flow of
€7.7 billion in the most volatile conditions.
Our underlying sales growth for the year was 1.9%, which
represents a good performance in such volatile and precarious
conditions. On the bottom line, underlying operating margin
was down 60bps to 18.5%, although this was largely a factor
of Covid-related costs and adverse product sales mix.
What were the highlights of 2020 for you?
The resolve, dedication and ingenuity of our people in the face
of unprecedented challenges – combined with their willingness
to pull together in a spirit of One Unilever – was undoubtedly
a highlight of the year. It made me even prouder to lead the
wonderful people of this great company. I can only thank them
for what they have achieved over the last year for Unilever and
for its many stakeholders.
Thanks to their contribution, we have not only steered Unilever
successfully through the first phase of a pandemic, but we have
done so while simultaneously strengthening the company’s
portfolio and – with it – our ability to compete longer term. The
successful completion of the Horlicks acquisition, for example,
along with other acquisitions last year – including Liquid I.V.
and SmartyPants Vitamins – further boost our presence in the
fast-growing and strategically attractive segment of functional
nutrition and wellbeing.
At the same time, we were able to give the company greater
strategic flexibility to engage in even more transformative portfolio
moves – should it ever wish – by successfully completing the
Unification of the Group’s legal structure under a single parent
company, Unilever PLC. This complex undertaking has been a
long-held and much debated ambition. To see it come to fruition
on the strength of the overwhelming endorsement of shareholders
was certainly a highlight of 2020.
How will the new Compass strategy
strengthen Unilever?
At the heart of the Unilever Compass is a belief that sustainable
and purposeful business drives superior long-term performance.
That message is more relevant – and more resonant – today than
ever before. While Covid-19 has concentrated minds and efforts on
the immediate global health crisis, it has also reminded us of the
fragility of the world we all share with other big global challenges,
like climate change and inequality, becoming even more pressing.
By making solutions to these challenges the focus of our attention
– and the essence of our brand propositions – we connect even
more directly with the billions of people around the world we serve.
They want to see companies and brands step-up and actively
engage in addressing today’s most urgent and deep-seated social
and environmental challenges, not just pay them lip service.
The power and relevance of the Unilever Compass was captured
vividly last year in the launch of some major initiatives. Clean
Future, for example, commits us to replace all of the fossil
fuel-derived carbon in our cleaning and laundry products with
renewable or recycled carbon by 2030. And with Future Foods,
we have set an ambition to transform the global food system,
reduce food waste and accelerate the move to plant-based meat
and dairy alternatives. These industry-leading initiatives respond
directly to the wishes of consumers. They also build on earlier,
equally ambitious, commitments around Climate and Nature and
on reducing plastics, both of which are covered in more detail in
other parts of this report (see pages 28 to 29).
More recently, we have given expression to the social dimension of
the Unilever Compass by setting out how we plan to use our scale
and influence to build a more equitable and inclusive society. This
includes ensuring we pay a living wage to everyone in our value
chain by 2030 and preparing our people for the future of work
through skills and flexible employment options.
What are your priorities for 2021?
Despite encouraging developments on treatments and vaccines,
the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over. Our overriding priority
remains, therefore, to protect lives and livelihoods. We will do that
by focussing on the safety and well-being of our own people – and
the many we work with in the value chain – while also continuing
to play a prominent role in the wider relief effort, including in the
roll-out of global handwashing campaigns.
The economic toll from the pandemic will be deep and longlasting.
We need to be prepared. We will continue therefore in
2021 to focus on competitive growth. This will be a key part of
our overall 4G approach of delivering consistent, profitable,
competitive and responsible growth. All four are needed to create
value.
A further priority is to ensure we retain the speed and agility
of response which characterised our performance in 2020. We
have a wonderful portfolio of on-trend, purpose-led brands,
many of which are directly helping people through the trials of
the pandemic and prolonged periods of lockdown. Taking those
brands to more places, more people and more quickly is a key
part of our plans for 2021.
Finally, in keeping with our vision and belief that responsible
and sustainable business drives superior performance, we will
continue to prioritise our multi-stakeholder business model,
sure in the knowledge that the best way to deliver steady,
compounded value creation for shareholders is to serve the
needs and interests of all of Unilever’s many stakeholders.

