20%2 increase in Group adjusted PBT
with good performance and increased
margins in both business divisions
• 5%2
 increase in Speciality Food
Ingredients adjusted operating profit
to £181m:
– 8%2
 profit growth in core business,
despite North America volume
growth remaining challenging
– £30m increase in SPLENDA®
Sucralose profit following actions
taken to refocus the business
– £19m decrease in Food Systems
profit with significant decline
in Europe
• 22% increase in sales from New
Products to US$105m
• 32%2
 increase in Bulk Ingredients
adjusted operating profit to £129m:
– Strong commercial and operational
execution, good demand and
robust margins
– £17m higher profit from
Commodities
• £40m benefit from currency
translation in adjusted profit before tax
• £121m increase in adjusted free cash
flow from higher earnings, lower
capital expenditure and
currency translation
• Exceptional impairment charges of
£26m
1 Adjusted results and a number of other terms and
performance measures used in this Annual Report
are not directly defined within accounting
standards. For clarity we have provided
descriptions of the various metrics and their
reconciliations to the most directly comparable
measures reported in IFRS, and the calculations
where relevant of any ratios, in Notes 1 and 4.
2 Percentage changes in constant currency
Sales from continuing operations of £2,753 million were 17%
higher than the prior year (2% higher at constant currency).
Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations increased
by 40% (18% at constant currency) to £264 million with profits
ahead in both divisions.
Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations was 40%
higher than last year (20% at constant currency), increasing to
£271 million. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations increased by 12.6p to 47.1p.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax from continuing
operations increased by £107 million to £233 million. Statutory
diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
increased by 28.3p to 54.2p reflecting improved operating
performance, lower operating exceptional items and a tax
credit in the year driven by exceptional tax items (2016 – tax
charge). Profit for the year from total operations increased to
£256 million (2016 – £163 million) with the prior year benefiting
from a £42 million profit for the year from discontinued
operations which included £62 million of profit after tax in
respect of disposed elements of the Eaststarch joint venture
and the Moroccan subsidiary.
Adjusted net finance expense from continuing operations, which
excludes net retirement benefit interest, was £2 million higher at
£25 million, principally reflecting steps taken to extend the
weighted average maturity of debt as proceeds from the
drawdown of the Group’s US$400 million private debt, with a
blended fixed rate notes coupon of around 4%, were used to repay
short-term commercial paper in October 2015.
The Group repaid a US$250 million bond on its maturity in June
2016. 
The Group’s share of profit after tax of joint ventures and
associates of £32 million was £4 million higher than in the prior
year reflecting strong underlying performance at both Almex in
Mexico (due to strong demand for bulk sweeteners) and our
Bio-PDO joint venture in the US. 
During the year, the Group recognised a net exceptional charge
of £19 million within continuing operations. Included in
exceptional costs were net impairment charges totalling
£26 million. The Group incurred a net £13 million charge in
respect of the Group’s Brazilian Food Systems business,
Gemacom, reflecting lower growth expectations against the
backdrop of a weaker macroeconomic outlook in Brazil. The
Group also incurred a £7 million charge in respect of exiting
our interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co., Ltd. in
China together with a £6 million charge in respect of the
impairment of certain redundant assets at our Decatur facility
in the US.
The Group’s tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits
and reflects a combination of higher rates in certain
jurisdictions such as the US, nil effective rates in the UK due to
available tax losses, and rates that lie somewhere in between.
The adjusted effective tax rate on earnings for continuing
operations for the year ended 31 March 2017 increased to
18.2% (2016 – 16.5%).
The reported effective tax rate (on statutory earnings) for the
year was a credit of 9.6% (2016 – a charge of 4.0%), lower as a
result of the recognition of two significant exceptional deferred
tax credits totalling £65 million.
Firstly, as a result of recent changes in UK legislation arising
from the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS)
project and changes to the internal financing arrangements we
use to fund our international businesses, we have recognised
an exceptional deferred tax credit of £34 million arising from
previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK, which, based on
enacted legislation, are now expected to be utilised against
future UK taxable profits.
Secondly, the Group transferred at fair value its sucralose
intellectual property assets from the UK, to align ownership
with its corresponding manufacturing base in the US, following
the move to consolidate all sucralose production into our US
facility in the 2016 financial year. This transfer led to the
recognition of an exceptional deferred tax credit of £31 million.
The recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets and
liabilities is dependent on a number of key judgements and
estimates. The deferred tax asset of £34 million arising from
the utilisation of UK tax losses following changes to the
internal financing arrangements reflects judgements related
principally to: the size and duration of future internal financing
arrangements; the interest coupon payable on these
arrangements; the future level of deductible expenses incurred
in the UK; and foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in
these assumptions, along with future changes in legislation, for
example impacting the utilisation of UK tax losses, could have
a material impact on the amount of deferred tax recognised in
future accounting periods
We estimate that, with an increasing mix of US profits, the
impact of changes to our internal financing structure, and
under currently enacted legislation, the adjusted effective tax
rate for the 2018 financial year will be between 21% and 24%.
We expect the rate of cash tax, being the amount of tax paid as
a percentage of adjusted profit before tax, to align to the
adjusted effective tax rate over time
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a
£1 million exceptional gain, resulting from the recycling of
cumulative foreign exchange translation gains from reserves to
the income statement upon completion of the disposal of its
corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco on 1 June 2016.
The discontinued profit for the year ended 31 March 2016
principally comprised a net exceptional profit before tax on
disposal from Eaststarch and Morocco of £64 million (as the
Group disposed of the predominantly bulk ingredients plants in
Bulgaria, Turkey, Hungary and Morocco as part of the overall
re-alignment), and an exceptional legal charge of £18 million
relating to the sale of the Group’s former EU Sugars business
in September 2010. 
The Group maintains pension plans for our employees in a
number of countries. Some of these arrangements are defined
benefit pension schemes and, although we have closed the
main UK scheme and the US salaried and hourly paid schemes
to future accrual, certain obligations remain. In the US, we also
provide medical benefits as part of retirement packages.
The net deficit on the Group’s retirement benefits plans
decreased by £69 million to £139 million. The deficit
improvement was driven primarily by an increase in the surplus
of the main UK scheme reflecting an increase in the value of all
asset classes and lower retirement benefit obligations driven
by changes in mortality assumptions, partially offset by a
reduction in the discount rate used to discount future
pension obligations.
Gross assets of £2,771 million at 31 March 2017 were
£217 million higher than the prior year on a statutory basis
reflecting profit for the year and the positive impact of the
strengthening US dollar, with significant exchange gains
on translation of foreign operations recognised in other
comprehensive income. Net assets increased by £303 million
to £1,332 million
Adjusted free cash flow (representing cash generated from
continuing operations excluding the impact of exceptional
items less net interest paid, income tax paid, and capital
expenditure) was £174 million, £121 million higher than the
prior year principally reflecting higher earnings (after adjusting
for non-cash items) and lower capital expenditure.
Net interest paid increased by £8 million, mostly owing to
timing of interest payments. Taxation paid was £19 million
higher reflecting higher taxable profits in the US.
Capital expenditure of £153 million, which included a
£26 million investment in intangible assets, was 1.1 times the
depreciation and adjusted amortisation charge of £137 million
and reflects continued investment in capacity as well as
efficiency and maintenance investments. We expect capital
expenditure for the 2018 financial year to be around the
same level.
Other significant cash flows in arriving at net debt included:
£29 million of dividends received from joint ventures; external
dividend payments of £130 million; exceptional cash outflows of
£24 million; and the £18 million payment for the purchase of
shares to satisfy share option commitments
In the ordinary course of business, to manage our operations
and financing, we enter into certain performance guarantees
and commitments for capital and other expenditure. We aim to
optimise financing costs in respect of all financing transactions.
Where it is economically beneficial, we choose to lease rather
than purchase assets. Leases for property, plant and equipment
where the lessee does not assume substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership are treated as operating leases, with
annual rentals charged to the income statement over the term
of the lease. Commitments under operating leases to pay rentals
in future years totalled £318 million (2016 – £303 million)
and related primarily to railcar leases in the US and our
commitment for a gas pipeline to supply our Loudon facility.
Rental charges for the year ended 31 March 2017 in respect of
continuing operations were £32 million (2016 – £24 million).
In Food & Beverage Solutions, we expect to accelerate revenue
growth and deliver margin accretion, while managing Sucralose
for cash; and in Primary Products optimise product mix to
underpin stable earnings and cash flow delivery. As the three
programmes we are implementing gather momentum, we expect
growth in earnings per share in constant currency to accelerate,
organic return on capital employed in constant currency to
improve, and strong cash generation to support our progressive
dividend policy.
Tate & Lyle is in a strong financial position. We generate a good
return on our assets and have a strong balance sheet with
modest leverage. We believe the appropriate leverage over the
longer term for our business lies in the range of 1x to 2x net
debt:EBITDA, giving us flexibility to invest and grow the business.
To maintain our financial position and investment grade credit
rating, we will apply clear capital allocation priorities:
• Invest in sustainable organic growth
• Fund acquisitions, partnerships or joint ventures to accelerate
growth
• Maintain our progressive dividend policy
• Return surplus capital to shareholders.
Overall, we are in a strong financial position with clear priorities
to accelerate growth.
Environment, health and safety
Following a Group-wide safety review completed during the year,
we concluded that our safety and environmental performance are
closely linked and should be co-ordinated and managed holistically.
As a result of this, during the year a new environmental, health
and safety (EHS) strategy was developed to deliver and sustain
EHS excellence across all our locations for all our employees and
contractors. More information about this programme can be
found on pages 46 and 47.Our employees across Tate & Lyle bring a huge amount of energy
and passion to work every day, and I would like to thank them for
their hard work and dedication. Our strong performance this year
is a testament to their talent and commitment and, in my first
year as Chief Executive, I look forward to working with them.
Outlook
For the year ending 31 March 2019, we expect growth in earnings
per share1 in constant currency to be in a mid-single digit range,
albeit towards the lower end due to energy and transport cost
inflation in North America and a strong year of Commodities
performance in fiscal 2018.
Summary
Tate & Lyle enters the 2019 financial year in a good position.
We have a strong value proposition aligned to growing global
trends of sugar, calorie and fat reduction, fibre enrichment and
demand for cleaner labels. We have set out three clear priorities
for the business – to sharpen our focus on our customers,
accelerate portfolio development, and simplify the business and
drive productivity – and actions to deliver these priorities are
already underway.
With our clear strategy, talented people, and strong sense of
purpose, I am confident we have a strong business capable of
delivering sustained returns.ansion, which increases capacity by
more than three times from when the facility was acquired by
Tate & Lyle in 2014, will help support local and global demand for
our fibres. Finally, in March, our joint venture DuPont Tate & Lyle
Bio Products announced an expansion to its manufacturing
facility in Loudon, Tennessee, to increase annual production of its
bio-based 1,3-propanediol by 35 million pounds. This expansion,
which is expected to be completed in 2019, will help meet
growing customer demand for higher-performing ingredients
from a petroleum-free, more sustainable and renewable source.
Executive management team
During the year, we further strengthened the executive
management team with the appointment in September of Andrew
Taylor as President, Innovation and Commercial Development
and Melissa Law as President, Global Operations. Andrew
previously worked at The Boston Consulting Group, where he was
a Senior Partner and Managing Director, leading the global
Innovation Practice. Before joining Tate & Lyle, Melissa worked at
Baker Hughes, where she led the Global Specialties Chemicals
Division, a major part of its Oilfield Service portfolio. Together
with Imran Nawaz, formerly of Mondele-z International, who will
join us as Chief Financial Officer in August 2018, the executive
team has a good blend of company experience, industry
knowledge, and a fresh perspective, and is well set to lead the
business into the next phase of its development.
An integrated business with a strong value
proposition
Tate & Lyle operates as one integrated business going to market
as two trading divisions. Food & Beverage Solutions and Primary
Products each has a distinct role to play, and both are important to
the Group’s future. They share common assets and we manage
them together to optimise overall returns for shareholders.
Food & Beverage Solutions, which operates in the large and
growing global food ingredients market, combines a deep
understanding of sweetness, texture and fibre enrichment with
expertise in key categories of beverages, dairy, and soups,
sauces, and dressings, to tailor solutions for our customers.
These solutions help meet growing global consumer demand for
food and drink with less sugar, calories and fat and more fibre.
While food is global, taste is local, so our customers also value
our ability to deliver solutions in their local markets.
Strategy
Our strategy is to grow our business by:
• Growing Food & Beverage Solutions by building leading
positions in three categories globally – beverages, dairy,
and soups, sauces and dressings – and in two or three
additional categories in each region where we have local
expertise. Managing Sucralose to generate cash
• Driving value from Primary Products by optimising its
portfolio to deliver steady earnings and generate cash.
Primary Products is predominantly anchored in the more stable
North American market, with strong market positions in
high-volume sweeteners and industrial starches, and supported
by scale, cost competitive assets.
Underpinning our business is a reputation built over many years
as a trusted supplier, with highly skilled people motivated by a
strong sense of purpose to improve people’s lives by enabling
healthier food choices.
Actions to accelerate business performance
Leveraging these strengths and our strong balance sheet, we are
implementing three programmes to accelerate business
performance:
1. Sharpen focus on customers and key categories
• Focus our growth strategy on three categories globally –
beverages, dairy, and soups, sauces and dressings – and two
or three additional categories in each region where we have
local expertise
• Reorganise our commercial teams to reflect how our
customers are organised in these categories
• Integrated Food Systems into Food & Beverage Solutions to
provide one approach for customers.
2. Accelerate portfolio development
• Accelerate development and commercialisation of
new products
• Develop more external partnerships and alliances to
catalyse innovation
• Increase emphasis on acquisitions and joint ventures.
3. Simplify and drive productivity
• Target US$100 million of productivity savings over the next
four years
• Simplify the business, reduce costs, and increase efficiencies
across the supply chain
• Productivity benefits expected to be paced evenly across the
four years, and will be invested to grow the business, improve
customer service, and support margin progression. 
The Food & Beverage Solutions segment had an encouraging
year, with volume 3% higher. It was especially pleasing to see a
return to volume growth in the important North American
market, where we saw success from our focus on higher growth
sub-segments and key categories. In the other regions of the
world, volume growth continued to be good. Adjusted operating
profit increased by 5% (8% in constant currency) to £137 million
reflecting both higher volume and the recovery of our stabiliser
business (previously named Food Systems). Investments in the
longer-term development of the business in the first half
moderated profit growth.
Sales of New Products, which represent products in the first
seven years after launch, grew by 15% to US$121 million.
Our innovation capability is well established with each of our
sweeteners, texturants and health and wellness platforms
contributing to growth.
Sucralose adjusted operating profit increased by 6% (5% in
constant currency) to £55 million, with lower operating costs
driving higher margins.
Primary Products delivered particularly good results. Adjusted
operating profit increased by 28% (30% in constant currency) to
£166 million. The performance in the core business was driven by
a combination of strong commercial and operational execution,
and firm margins. Profits from Commodities increased by
£24 million to £32 million mainly reflecting market opportunities
across co-products and gains from corn sourcing.
Profits from our joint venture businesses were 14% lower at
£28 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
increased by 6% (7% in constant currency) to 50.1p.
Cash generation continued to be excellent. Adjusted free cash
flow increased by £22 million to £196 million reflecting stronger
operating results and lower capital expenditure. Net debt at
£392 million, was £60 million lower. Return on capital employed
increased by 190 bps to 16.2%.
Our balance sheet remains robust and the Group is well
positioned for the future.
Progress in the year
During the year, we continued to invest to underpin future growth
in Food & Beverage Solutions and to support cash delivery from
Primary Products.
Our business and presence in the emerging markets continues to
grow. The challenges of both over- and under-nutrition in these
regions means that our customers are increasingly seeking
solutions which reduce sugar, calories and fat, and enrich
products with fibre. While demand for more natural and healthier
food is increasing, consumers will not compromise on taste.
Making healthy food tastier, and tasty food healthier in categories
like dairy and beverages is a challenge that our food scientists
are especially well equipped to meet. During the year we
expanded our food application laboratories in Shanghai,
Singapore and Mexico City. At each site, we added new customerfacing facilities as well as pilot scale equipment to enable
customers to work with us to design, trial and benchmark
different recipe formulations. These new laboratories are already
making a material difference to the way we serve our customers
in these regions.
We continue to bring new products to market both through our
in-house innovation capabilities and by establishing strategic
partnerships. For example, in April 2017, we entered into an
exclusive partnership with Sweet Green Fields, one of the largest
fully integrated global stevia players, to bring their leading
stevia-based sweetening solutions to our customers worldwide 
Primary Products delivered particularly good results. Adjusted
operating profit increased by 28% (30% in constant currency) to
£166 million. The performance in the core business was driven by
a combination of strong commercial and operational execution,
and firm margins. Profits from Commodities increased by
£24 million to £32 million mainly reflecting market opportunities
across co-products and gains from corn sourcing.
Profits from our joint venture businesses were 14% lower at
£28 million.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
increased by 6% (7% in constant currency) to 50.1p.
Cash generation continued to be excellent. Adjusted free cash
flow increased by £22 million to £196 million reflecting stronger
operating results and lower capital expenditure. Net debt at
£392 million, was £60 million lower. Return on capital employed
increased by 190 bps to 16.2%.
Our balance sheet remains robust and the Group is well
positioned for the future.